CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

The best way to contribute to the development of this plugin is by participating on the GitHub project:

https://github.com/pantheon-systems/wp-native-php-sessions

Pull requests and issues are welcome!

## Testing

You may notice there are two sets of tests running, on two different services:

* The [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/) test suite.
* The [Behat](http://behat.org/) test suite runs against a Pantheon site, to ensure the plugin's compatibility with the Pantheon platform.

Both of these test suites can be run locally, with a varying amount of setup.

PHPUnit requires the [WordPress PHPUnit test suite](https://make.wordpress.org/core/handbook/testing/automated-testing/phpunit/), and access to a database with name `wordpress_test`. If you haven't already configured the test suite locally, you can run `bash bin/install-wp-tests.sh wordpress_test root '' localhost`.

Behat requires a Pantheon site. Once you've created the site, you'll need [install Terminus](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/terminus#installation), and set the `TERMINUS_TOKEN`, `TERMINUS_SITE`, and `TERMINUS_ENV` environment variables. Then, you can run `./bin/behat-prepare.sh` to prepare the site for the test suite.

## Workflow

The `develop` branch is the development branch which means it contains the next version to be released. `main` contains the corresponding stable development version. Always work on the `develop` branch and open up PRs against `develop`.

## Release Process

1. Starting from `develop`, cut a release branch named `release_X.Y.Z` containing your changes.
1. Update plugin version in `package.json`, `README.md`, `readme.txt`, and `pantheon-sessions.php`.
1. Update the Changelog with the latest changes.
1. Create a PR against the `main` branch.
1. After all tests pass and you have received approval from a CODEOWNER (including resolving any merge conflicts), merge the PR into `main`.
1. Pull `main` locally, create a new tag, and push up.
1. Confirm that the necessary assets are present in the newly created tag, and test on a WP install if desired.
1. Create a [new release](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/wp-native-php-sessions/releases/new) using the tag created in the previous steps, naming the release with the new version number, and targeting the tag created in the previous step. Paste the release changelog from `CHANGELOG.md` into the body of the release and include a link to the closed issues if applicable.
1. Wait for the [_Release wp-native-php-sessions plugin to wp.org_ action](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/wp-native-php-sessions/actions/workflows/wordpress-plugin-deploy.yml) to finish deploying to the WordPress.org repository. If all goes well, users with SVN commit access for that plugin will receive an emailed diff of changes.
1. Check WordPress.org: Ensure that the changes are live on https://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-native-php-sessions/. This may take a few minutes.

Commit message:

Update the "necessary assets" step (#242)
* Update the "necessary assets" step

Replace "Confirm that the necessary assets are present in the newly created tag, and test on a WP install if desired" with the actual step for this repository.

* call out .gitattributes, specifically

Co-authored-by: John Spellman <john.spellman@pantheon.io>

* remove extra number list item

---------

Co-authored-by: John Spellman <john.spellman@pantheon.io>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

The best way to contribute to the development of this plugin is by participating on the GitHub project:

https://github.com/pantheon-systems/wp-native-php-sessions

Pull requests and issues are welcome!

## Testing

You may notice there are two sets of tests running, on two different services:

* The [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/) test suite.
* The [Behat](http://behat.org/) test suite runs against a Pantheon site, to ensure the plugin's compatibility with the Pantheon platform.

Both of these test suites can be run locally, with a varying amount of setup.

PHPUnit requires the [WordPress PHPUnit test suite](https://make.wordpress.org/core/handbook/testing/automated-testing/phpunit/), and access to a database with name `wordpress_test`. If you haven't already configured the test suite locally, you can run `bash bin/install-wp-tests.sh wordpress_test root '' localhost`.

Behat requires a Pantheon site. Once you've created the site, you'll need [install Terminus](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/terminus#installation), and set the `TERMINUS_TOKEN`, `TERMINUS_SITE`, and `TERMINUS_ENV` environment variables. Then, you can run `./bin/behat-prepare.sh` to prepare the site for the test suite.

## Workflow

The `develop` branch is the development branch which means it contains the next version to be released. `main` contains the corresponding stable development version. Always work on the `develop` branch and open up PRs against `develop`.

## Release Process

1. Starting from `develop`, cut a release branch named `release_X.Y.Z` containing your changes.
1. Update plugin version in `package.json`, `README.md`, `readme.txt`, and `pantheon-sessions.php`.
1. Update the Changelog with the latest changes.
1. Create a PR against the `main` branch.
1. After all tests pass and you have received approval from a CODEOWNER (including resolving any merge conflicts), merge the PR into `main`.
1. Pull `main` locally, create a new tag, and push up.
1. (Optional) Download the zipped asset from the release and unzip locally, confirming that the expected files are present (and unexpected files, e.g. files outlined in [.gitattributes](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/wp-native-php-sessions/blob/main/.gitattributes) are omitted).
1. Create a [new release](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/wp-native-php-sessions/releases/new) using the tag created in the previous steps, naming the release with the new version number, and targeting the tag created in the previous step. Paste the release changelog from `CHANGELOG.md` into the body of the release and include a link to the closed issues if applicable.
1. Wait for the [_Release wp-native-php-sessions plugin to wp.org_ action](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/wp-native-php-sessions/actions/workflows/wordpress-plugin-deploy.yml) to finish deploying to the WordPress.org repository. If all goes well, users with SVN commit access for that plugin will receive an emailed diff of changes.
1. Check WordPress.org: Ensure that the changes are live on https://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-native-php-sessions/. This may take a few minutes.
