# Contributing

The best way to contribute to the development of this plugin is by participating on the GitHub project:

https://github.com/pantheon-systems/wp-native-php-sessions

Pull requests and issues are welcome!

## Testing

You may notice there are two sets of tests running, on two different services:

* The [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/) test suite.
* The [Behat](http://behat.org/) test suite runs against a Pantheon site, to ensure the plugin's compatibility with the Pantheon platform.

Both of these test suites can be run locally, with a varying amount of setup.

PHPUnit requires the [WordPress PHPUnit test suite](https://make.wordpress.org/core/handbook/testing/automated-testing/phpunit/), and access to a database with name `wordpress_test`. If you haven't already configured the test suite locally, you can run `composer test:install:withdb`. Otherwise, you can install the test suite with `composer test:install`, and run the tests with `composer test`.

Behat requires a Pantheon site. Once you've created the site, you'll need [install Terminus](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/terminus#installation), and set the `TERMINUS_TOKEN`, `TERMINUS_SITE`, and `TERMINUS_ENV` environment variables. Then, you can run `./bin/behat-prepare.sh` to prepare the site for the test suite.

## Workflow

Development and releases are structured around two branches, `main` and `release`. The `main` branch is the source and destination for feature branches.

We prefer to squash commits (i.e. avoid merge PRs) from a feature branch into `main` when merging, and to include the PR # in the commit message. PRs to `main` should also include any relevent updates to the changelog in readme.txt. If a feature constitutes a minor or major version bump, that version update should be discussed and made as part of approving and merging the feature into `main`.

`main` should be stable and usable, though will be few commits ahead of the public release on wp.org.

The `release` branch matches the latest stable release deployed to [wp.org](wp.org).

## Release Process

1. Merge your feature branch into `main` with a PR. This PR should include any necessary updates to the changelog in readme.txt and README.md.
1. A draft release PR will be generated by the [`release-pr`](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/pantheon-advanced-page-cache/actions/workflows/release-pr.yml) action. This PR needs to be switched to Ready to Review so automated testing will run.
1. After merging the release PR to the `release` branch, a draft Release will be automatically be created by the [`build-tag-release`](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/pantheon-advanced-page-cache/actions/workflows/build-tag-release.yml) workflow. This draft release will be automatically pre-filled with release notes.
1. Confirm that the necessary assets are present in the newly created tag, and test on a WP install if desired.
1. Review the release notes making any necessary changes and publish the release.
1. Wait for the [_Release wp-native-php-sessions plugin to wp.org_ action](https://github.com/pantheon-systems/wp-native-php-sessions/actions/workflows/wordpress-plugin-deploy.yml) to finish deploying to the WordPress.org plugin repository. If all goes well, users with SVN commit access for that plugin will receive an emailed diff of changes.
1. Check WordPress.org: Ensure that the changes are live on [the plugin repository](https://wordpress.org/plugins/native-php-sessions/). This may take a few minutes.
1. Following the release, prepare the next dev version with the following steps:
    * `git checkout main`
    * `git pull origin main`
    * `git checkout develop`
    * `git rebase main`
    * Update the version number in all locations, incrementing the version by one patch version, and add the `-dev` flag (e.g. after releasing `1.2.3`, the new verison will be `1.2.4-dev`)
    * Add a new `** X.Y.X-dev **` heading to the changelog
    * `git add -A .`
    * `git commit -m "Prepare X.Y.X-dev"`
    * `git push origin develop`

## Asset-only Releases
Thanks to [10up/action-wordpress-plugin-asset-update](https://github.com/10up/action-wordpress-plugin-asset-update/) we can make asset-only updates to WordPress.org without needing to create a new release. This is useful for updating the plugin banner, icon, screenshots or just updating the readme.txt.

Broadly the process for creating asset-only releases is as follows:

1. Branch off of `release` and make your changes. Ensure that you are _only_ making changes to `readme.txt`/`readme.md` or files in the `.wordpress.org` directory. Some other changes (e.g. to `.gitignore` or `composer.json`) are allowed but any file changes to anything beyond those locations will trigger the release automation.
1. Push your branch to GitHub and open a PR against `main`.
1. Automation will trigger and create a new release branch in the repository. Because the version numbers have not changed, you will need to ensure that the version numbers in your branch are correct. If they are not, and a new branch was created automatically that drops the `-dev` suffix but contains the correct version number, you can merge that branch into your PR branch to update the version numbers, then close the release branch. A release PR will not be created because the diffs will not have changed.
1. Once the PR is merged, the asset update action will run and update the assets on WordPress.org.
1. Check out `main` and merge `release` into it to ensure that the asset-only changes are included in the next release. Then update the version numbers again to re-add the `-dev` suffix.

**Note:** In the future we will work on making this process smoother and more automated.